message of the day by Mr. Sean Witt entitled seven powerful prayers in the Bible.
Mr. Witt.
Thank you Curtis.
Good afternoon everyone.
So I think it's interesting Ken's message about praying.
More than interesting, I think it's awesome how God orchestrates these things.
You know, a few weeks ago, I did a message on praying.
I was entitled, The Importance of Prayer.
Well, today, I felt led that I wanted to go ahead and talk about the seven powerful prayers from the Bible that can encourage someone to talk a little bit more about praying.
And I like to give credit where credit is due.
When I was researching for this message,
upon a website called biblepraypoints.com, which kind of gave me a little bit of the outline for this message.
Pardon me.
Okay, so for the first example I'd like to give, let's go to the first prayer, which is Matthew chapter six, verses seven through 13.
And this is one of the prayers that I had in my message a few weeks back as well.
And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathens do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.
Therefore, do not be like them, for the Father knows the things you have need of before you ask Him.
In this manner, therefore pray.
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us our daily, give us this day our daily bread and forgive us of our debts.
And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one for yours is a kingdom and the power and the glory forever.
Amen.
This prayer was taught to us by Jesus himself.
It is a model for all prayers.
It emphasizes
worshiping and having full submission to God's will, having independence and provision for forgiveness and spiritual protection.
So it reminds us to prioritize being in God's kingdom and trusting in Him.
So that's the model prayer.
So now I'd like to go to the second prayer.
And this one is about Hannah.
Hannah's story in the Bible is a testament to her faith and devotion.
She was a wife of Elkinah who had two wives, but Hannah was his favorite.
Despite the taunts and insults from Penonah who had children, Hannah prayed fervently to God seeking a son.
Her prayer was so intense that it caught the attention of the priest Eli who initially
mistook her for being drunk.
Hannah's prayer was answered by God.
She bore a son named Samuel who was dedicated to God as a Nazarite.
Hannah's story is a powerful example of perseverance and prayer and the importance of keeping promises to God.
So let's now go to 1 Samuel 1 verses 8 through 11.
Then Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah, why do you weep?
Why do you not eat?
And why is your heart grieved?
Am I not better to you than 10 sons?
So Hannah rose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh.
And Eli, the priest, was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord.
And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish.
Then she made a vow.
She said, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look at my affliction of your maidservant and remember me and not forget your maidservant, but will give your maidservant a male child, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life and no razor shall come upon his head.
Hannah's prayer is a great example of pouring out her heart to God when we are in desperation and needing to trust him.
Her willingness to surrender, her deepest desire to God's will demonstrates profound faith and devotion.
This is the type of faith and devotion we need to be seeking as well like Hannah did.
So now we're going to go to our third example of prayer.
So this is one's about King David.
And we know that David was a man after God's own heart.
He had his flaws just like we do.
And when his sinful nature was revealed by Nathan, he prayed and he asked for God's forgiveness.
He recognized what he was doing was wrong.
So we're going to go to Psalm 51, and we're going to go ahead and read the chapter of Psalm 51.
Have mercy upon me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is always before me, and against you, you have only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight, that you may be found just when you speak and blameless when you judge.
Behold, I was brought before in iniquity and in sin,
My mother conceived me, behold, you desire truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part, you will make me to know wisdom.
Purge me with hissip, and I shall be clean.
Wash me, and I shall be wider than snow.
Make me hear joy and gladness that the bones you have broken may rejoice.
Hide your face for my sins and blot out my iniquities, creating me a clean heart, O Lord, and renew
a steadfast spirit within me.
Do not cast me away from your presence and do not take your Holy Spirit from me."
He's grieving through all this.
Restore me to the joy of your salvation and uphold me in your generous spirit.
Then I will teach transgressors your way and sinners will be converted to you, delivered me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, to the God of my salvation and my tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness, O Lord, open my lips.
and my mouth shall show forth your praise, for you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it.
You do not delight in burnt offering.
The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart.
These, O God, you will not despise.
Do good in your pleasure, O Zion, build the walls of Jerusalem, then you shall be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness and burnt offering.
And burnt offering, then they shall offer bulls on your altar.
this chapter is very powerful.
It was written after David sinned with Bathsheba, which we know resulted in Uriah's death and his son.
David's son dying was the part of the situation, but this prayer is a heartfelt plea for forgiveness and being restored.
It highlights God's mercy,
and the need to have a clean heart, the desire to be renewed in his spirit.
Is a reminder that God is with us even in the midst of sinful acts where there may be consequence for sin, but God will turn his, he won't turn his back on us.
He's waiting for us to acknowledge him and he'll forgive us and help us, but he was wanting us to be seeking him for his help.
So now we're going to go to the fourth prayer, and this involves King Solomon.
You know, in the beginning, King Solomon, at his beginning of his rule, when he was young, he had a great zeal for God, and he was faithful to him.
So now we're going to go to 1 Kings 3, verses 7 through 14.
Now, O Lord, my God, you have a major servant king instead of my father, David.
But I'm a little child, I do not know how to go out and to come in.
And your servant is in the midst of your people whom you have chosen, a great people, too numerous to be numbered or counted.
Therefore, give to your servant an understanding heart to judge your people that I made discern between good and evil.
For who is able to judge this great people of yours?
The speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing.
Then God said to him, because you have asked this thing, I have not asked, you have not asked for long life yourself, nor have asked for riches for yourself, nor have asked the life for your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice.
Behold, I have done according to your words, see I have given you a wise and understanding heart so that there has not been anyone like you before, nor shall there be like a rise after you.
And I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall be not anyone like you among the kings all your days.
So if you walk in my ways to keep my statutes and my commandments as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days.
So as a promise from God.
So when God offered Solomon anything he desired, Solomon asked for wisdom for God's people.
His prayer showed humility, selflessness, and a desire to fulfill God's will rather than seeking personal gain.
Solomon's life example is also a reminder that faithfulness to God must remain.
And as he grew older, he departed from God's commands, which led him astray, as we know, as he started marrying many wives and started doing all of the different
strange things of the idols and gods that weren't our actual God.
So now, let's go on to prayer number five.
This one is regarding Jesus.
So Jesus showed us how to follow God's will when he walked on this earth through his examples.
He did not
He did the complete, excuse me, I have my notes here.
He did not.
He did the complete will, I apologize for that.
He did the complete will of the Father always.
He always said the Father's will.
He followed through with the plan and he saved all mankind.
So now in Matthew 26 verses 36 and 39, we're gonna read the prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane.
Then Jesus came with them to the place called Gethsemane
and said to the disciples, sit here a while, I go and pray over there.
And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and he began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed.
Then he said to them, my soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death.
Stay here and watch for me.
He went a little farther, fell on his face and prayed, saying, oh, my father, if this be possible, let this cup pass for me.
Nevertheless,
Not as I will, but your will.
So even in Christ's darkest hour, Jesus prayed with raw honesty and complete surrender to His Father's will.
This prayer teaches us to teach, to trust God's plan even when it involves suffering or great heartache.
and sacrificing our own will.
You know, this life's not meant to be easy.
There'll be times of heartache, like I mentioned in agony, but we must follow Jesus' example of following God's will, always.
So now on to prayer number six.
This involves the Apostle Paul.
Paul wrote the book of Ephesians to help affirm the Ephesian believers to be faithful, the main focus
is being in Christ, and he wrote this while he was under house arrest.
So now we're going to go to Ephesians chapter 3, verses 13 through 19.
Therefore I ask that you do not lose heart at my tribulations for you, which is your glory.
For this reason I bow my needs to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named.
that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and length and depth and height to know the love of Jesus Christ, which passes knowledge that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
Paul's prayer for the Ephesians is a powerful intercession for spiritual growth, rooted in God's love and power.
It reminds us to be using God's gift to the Holy Spirit and seeking deeper intimacy with Christ and God the Father daily.
So now we come to our last one, the seventh prayer.
And this one is the prayer of J. Bez.
And I got this brief description of J. Bess from Crosswalk.com.
The prayer of J. Bess is a brief but profound petition found in the Old Testament of the Bible, specifically in 1 Chronicles 4, verse 10.
It is named after J. Bess who was mentioned in a genealogical record in Chronicles.
Despite the brief mention of his life, J. Bess's prayer stands out for his heartfelt plea to God for blessing and guidance.
So now we're going to read 1 Chronicles 4 verses 9 through 10.
Now, J. Bez was more honorable than his brothers and his mother called his name, J. Bez, saying, because I bore him in pain.
And J. Bez called on the God of Israel, saying, oh, that you would bless me indeed and enlarge my territory, that your hand would be on me and that you would keep me from evil, that I may not cause pain.
So God granted him what he requested.
J. Bez simple yet bold prayer demonstrates faith in God.
It's ability to bless, protect, and guide us.
It encourages us to ask God for his favor and provision in our lives.
God wants us to ask for his blessing.
He wants to give the very best to us.
So why are these prayers truly powerful?
These prayers are powerful because they reflect the aspects of a thriving relationship with God, our Father.
We have surrender and worship.
That's the Lord's prayer that I read.
Repentance and honesty from David's prayer.
Trust and faith from Hannah and J. Bez's prayer.
Wisdom and selflessness from Solomon's prayer.
and then love and spiritual growth from Paul's prayer.
So in conclusion, these prayers teach us how to approach God with faith, humility, and a heart to align with the will of what he is doing.
They remind us that praying to God isn't just about asking, but about connecting with God's heart.